Add blog post: LibrePCB 0.1.2 Released (#31)
LibrePCB/LibrePCB.github.io: content/blog/2019-07-14_release_0.1.2.md

---
date: 2019-07-14
title: LibrePCB 0.1.2 Released
author: U. Bruhin
---

This is mainly a bugfix release which fixes some usability, compatibility and
functional issues of the 0.1.1 release.

### Highlights

#### Support latest build environments

The dependencies `quazip`, `googletest`, `optional` and `type_safe` were
updated ([#476](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/476)) and some
deprecation warnings were fixed
([#478](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/478)). Now LibrePCB also
compiles with GCC 9.x and Qt 5.13 without any warnings.

Since we migrated from Travis-CI to Azure Pipelines
([#458](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/458)), CI is now able to
build on Ubuntu 19.04 with GCC 9.x to ensure compatibility with recent build
environments.

#### Improved table widgets

> The table widgets -- especially in the library editor -- behave a bit strange

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table widgets -- especially in the library editor -- behaved a bit strange
```

> and even buggy since their beginning. After refactoring the implementation of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and sometimes even buggy. After refactoring the implementation of
```

the observer pattern in low-level classes
([#449](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/449)), we were able to replace
most `QTableWidget` tables by `QTableView` using
[Qt's model/view framework](https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/model-view-programming.html)
([#456](https://github.com/LibrePCB/LibrePCB/pull/456)). This heavily improves
the usability and stability of our table widgets, see details in the changelog
below.

### Changelog

#### Library Editor:

> - Rename library overview context menu item"copy" to "duplicate"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rename library overview context menu item "copy" to "duplicate"
```
